Caption: good morning everyone thanks so much for
Caption: coming it's my absolute pleasure to
Caption: introduce Macklin uh Hartley to you
Caption: today he is a full stack engineer who's
Caption: been in the industry for nearly 10 years
Caption: so a fair bit of experience there and he
Caption: speaks about a range of topics including
Caption: accessibility queuing Theory continuous
Caption: delivery and feature toggling and this
Caption: is his third speaking engagement at DDD
Caption: and he's going to be talking to you
Caption: about how fast is your website really so
Caption: please Round of Applause for Macklin
Caption: [Applause]
Caption: thank you
Caption: is this working
Caption: yep all right so
Caption: how fast is your website really that's
Caption: the question I'm going to ask today how
Caption: many people build fast websites
Caption: so you all build slow websites that's
Caption: probably why you're here I guess right
Caption: cool
Caption: um how do you know if your website's
Caption: fast though I kind of was built built
Caption: this slide under the assumption that
Caption: everyone will put their hands up but
Caption: that's okay
Caption: um how do we even know that's probably
Caption: the question that we need to ask at the
Caption: moment
Caption: so spoiler alert this is how you know
Caption: this is this is the answer you need to
Caption: have user-centric performance metrics
Caption: you need to capture those metrics from
Caption: real devices and you need to have
Caption: continuous observability over those
Caption: metrics so that's that's the whole talk
Caption: right
Caption: um no that's that's the that's the end
Caption: of the talk I'm going to get to that
Caption: point but we've got to figure out how to
Caption: get there right
Caption: um just before I continue on one thing
Caption: that this talk is not going to be is how
Caption: to actually tune for better performance
Caption: how to do web Performance Tuning that's
Caption: probably a whole other talk in itself
Caption: and actually there's tons of tips like
Caption: Google will give you heaps of tips on
Caption: how to do that so we'll separate that
Caption: out of this talk we're just going to
Caption: figure out how to actually measure it
Caption: first
Caption: uh and then we'll go from there
Caption: so let's start by forgetting everything
Caption: we actually know about web performance
Caption: monitoring we'll start from scratch I
Caption: like the idea of starting somewhere
Caption: really naive and then kind of building
Caption: up building up from there so what we're
Caption: going to do is do the simplest thing
Caption: that I can probably think of which is
Caption: just on on that page load event this is
Caption: an event that's available to you in the
Caption: browser we're just going to track our
Caption: performance there so this would be code
Caption: that you can actually run and we can see
Caption: our page took 729 milliseconds to load
Caption: so that's nice except that kind of falls
Caption: apart because the moment we look in the
Caption: performance inspector which is a tool
Caption: that's available inside Chrome you can
Caption: see the the red L there that's your page
Caption: load event and you can actually see that
Caption: stuff's happening on either side of that
Caption: event and actually most of it's
Caption: happening on the wrong side so that's
Caption: not telling us anything useful basically
Caption: more of the stuff is happening after
Caption: that event
Caption: so we've got to try and fix that
Caption: one thing we could do is we could use
Caption: the new navigation timing API so it's a
Caption: bit more modern than just sort of
Caption: running a page load event
Caption: that is okay but really that's just
Caption: giving us a whole lot of numbers that
Caption: are about as meaningless as the page
Caption: load event now it's not telling us
Caption: anything useful when I get Dom content
Caption: loaded event end what does that mean
Caption: what does that mean for the user what
Caption: does that look like
Caption: so a bunch of smart big brain people
Caption: have gotten together and actually uh
Caption: all realize that we all have the same
Caption: problem and they put together the w3c
Caption: web performance working group
Caption: and this group
Caption: came together and came up with a the
Caption: Kinder term called user-centric
Caption: performance or user-centric performance
Caption: metrics
Caption: so what are those
Caption: they're centered around a couple of
Caption: different things
Caption: you've got perceived load speed it's as
Caption: perceived as in as best as we can
Caption: represent the load speed perceived by
Caption: the user
Caption: load responsiveness which is just how
Caption: fast that that process goes for
Caption: runtime responsiveness which is after
Caption: it's loaded how fast is your website and
Caption: then two other things visual stability
Caption: and smoothness which are less about
Caption: performance but still really important
Caption: and out of that who's seen these before
Caption: these metrics yeah web vitals a number
Caption: of metrics with abbreviations that are
Caption: sometimes hard to remember
Caption: that are the key metrics for measuring
Caption: web performance really handy
Caption: I'm going to go through all of these
Caption: really quickly I know a lot of you
Caption: people put your hands up saying that
Caption: they've seen these before so I won't
Caption: spend too long on them but we're going
Caption: to go through what each one of these
Caption: means just quickly so time to First Bite
Caption: is the time between when the browser
Caption: requests the page and when it receives
Caption: the first byte of information back and
Caption: it's kind of just all of the stuff
Caption: that's happening before your page loads
Caption: um there's actually quite a lot of it
Caption: usually a lot of this happens very very
Caption: quickly so it's almost imperceptible but
Caption: a number of things can actually affect
Caption: how long this process takes
Caption: so it's really important to measure that
Caption: Google
Caption: who I guess are big and heavily involved
Caption: in the w3c working web performance
Caption: working group suggest that time to First
Caption: Bite should be under 800 milliseconds
Caption: that's a good score but anything over
Caption: 1.8 seconds is poor and needs
Caption: Improvement
Caption: next up we have first content for paint
Caption: this is the time from when the page
Caption: starts loading to any any part of the
Caption: page is rendered on the screen so this
Caption: is going from a white box in your
Caption: browser to the first time anything
Caption: appears on the screen
Caption: it looks a bit like this
Caption: so we can see we captured FCP when that
Caption: first part of the result comes up on the
Caption: top
Caption: um Google's really convenient for
Caption: testing this stuff because they stream
Caption: these results back to you so you slow it
Caption: down slightly and you can actually
Caption: capture this
Caption: now we can see at the top there fcp's
Caption: 0.5 seconds
Caption: SCP should be anywhere between uh should
Caption: be below 1.8 seconds if you can help it
Caption: anything above three seconds is too long
Caption: and it needs Improvement
Caption: next up you have LCP or largest content
Caption: for paint
Caption: this is tracking how many seconds it
Caption: takes for the largest item or the
Caption: largest data most most data intensive
Caption: element above the fault element takes to
Caption: load
Caption: so it looks like this we can actually
Caption: see it shifts as this page loads and
Caption: we're looking at the the largest uh
Caption: we're we're stretching oops we're
Caption: tracking the largest element on the page
Caption: at a given time
Caption: pick that up
Caption: so you can see
Caption: LCP shifts from from sort of the top of
Caption: the bottom of the page is actually the
Caption: FCP at the very beginning but then as
Caption: the the largest as we kind of uncover
Caption: the largest element as we go that FCP
Caption: score changes and at the end we
Caption: calculate it at 1.6 seconds
Caption: largest content for paint should be
Caption: under 2.5 seconds if you can help it and
Caption: anything over four seconds is too long
Caption: then you have some other metrics as well
Caption: less associated with load times but
Caption: still really important this one's called
Caption: first input delay it's the time for the
Caption: first interaction on the page and the
Caption: first time your user clicks anything
Caption: Google targeted the first time the user
Caption: clicks anything because quite often
Caption: while your page is loading it's quite a
Caption: data intensive CPU intensive exercise
Caption: and if your user clicks anything while
Caption: that's happening you are likely to see
Caption: some sort of delay or incur some sort of
Caption: sort of uh less than ideal experience so
Caption: they focused on that first input
Caption: it looks a little bit like this um
Caption: usually it's quite imperceptible that
Caption: the target scores are very low so this
Caption: is a bit more of a contrived example but
Caption: you can click that button and then
Caption: there's an input delay there and we
Caption: track that
Caption: like I was saying quite quite low Target
Caption: scores there usually imperceptible like
Caption: 100 milliseconds is quite imperceptible
Caption: a good score is 100 milliseconds
Caption: anything over 300 is too long
Caption: next up this is a fairly new metric
Caption: called interaction to next paint and the
Caption: way to think about this one is its first
Caption: input delay calculated slightly
Caption: differently but over the course of the
Caption: entire interaction with the page so not
Caption: just the first interaction but every
Caption: interaction on the page every button you
Caption: click every Carousel you scroll and
Caption: stuff like that
Caption: interactions the next plane should be
Caption: under 200 milliseconds if you can help
Caption: it
Caption: anything of a every anything over half a
Caption: second is too long
Caption: now there's a slide missing there but
Caption: that's all right cumulative layout shift
Caption: is the last one uh this one is a little
Caption: bit a little bit different but I think
Caption: it's still a really important metric
Caption: it's not so much about web performance
Caption: as as much as as much it is about sort
Caption: of visual stability
Caption: um the way we can perceive
Caption: cumulative layout shift this is why I
Caption: think it's really important because
Caption: these are really annoying and they suck
Caption: and no user likes this when this happens
Caption: this is maybe a less disastrous example
Caption: but
Caption: no missing a slide there too cool
Caption: um
Caption: there was a I think there was a famous
Caption: example where there was a layout shift
Caption: on a on a page with a nuclear missile
Caption: alert test system and they clicked the
Caption: wrong one that's that's the picture I
Caption: had but it's gone so
Caption: this is a score between zero and one so
Caption: sort of a calculated score I think of it
Caption: more of like a percentage I don't know
Caption: if that's actually what it's meant to
Caption: represent but anything below 0.1 or 10
Caption: is good uh anything over 25 or 0.25
Caption: probably needs some work it's probably
Caption: got too many of those shifting
Caption: components that are getting in the way
Caption: annoying your users
Caption: so a number of these metrics not all of
Caption: them make up what Google called The Core
Caption: web vitals
Caption: you can see here largest contentful
Caption: paint and first input delay and
Caption: cumulative layout shift they make up
Caption: actually what Google uses to decide
Caption: whether where your search engine ranking
Caption: is if you have uh if you're somewhere on
Caption: a search engine page typically you can
Caption: move up that search engine page and
Caption: result if you have a faster website so
Caption: there's actually material benefit here a
Caption: commercial benefit in that if you
Caption: improve the performance of your site you
Caption: actually get get improved performance
Caption: sort of in your externalities for
Caption: example
Caption: um I want to talk about largest tent for
Caption: pain why did they choose that one
Caption: it's because these metrics aren't they
Caption: don't have atomicity so you might have
Caption: noticed when we went through our
Caption: examples before
Caption: um time to first by time to first by the
Caption: way it's calculated usually means um
Caption: you'll get a score that is below first
Caption: content for pain and a score that is
Caption: below your largest contentful pain
Caption: sometimes the first contentful and
Caption: largest contentful paint will be the
Caption: same that's probably a good thing
Caption: but what this means is tracking all of
Caption: these three together
Caption: we can actually sort of look at the
Caption: differences between them and identify
Caption: which one is having the most impact on
Caption: your web performance so for example if
Caption: you have a high very high number for
Caption: time to First buy that's usually an
Caption: indicator that your user is very far
Caption: away from where your web page is being
Caption: served from you can improve that by
Caption: bringing them closer together
Caption: now whereas if for example if your time
Caption: to First byte is really good
Caption: um but you've got a kind of a larger Gap
Caption: to First contentful paint sort of in
Caption: this case here and then a very large gap
Caption: to largest condent for paint
Caption: um we're able to transfer the JavaScript
Caption: and the HTML onto the page very very
Caption: quickly but it takes a long time to
Caption: process that past the JavaScript and
Caption: render it so that's where you'd probably
Caption: want to set your focus
Caption: and setting a focus on stuff like this
Caption: is really good like we have case studies
Caption: that actually prove that there is
Caption: commercial benefit to doing this
Caption: vodafone's a really good example
Caption: vodafone's huge so eight percent of
Caption: sales is an astronomically High number
Caption: but eight percent more sales when they
Caption: increase their performance on largest
Caption: contentful pain
Caption: so I think we know how to get
Caption: user-centric performance metrics now we
Caption: know what they are at least so we can
Caption: tick that box
Caption: let's figure out now how to actually
Caption: capture these metrics
Caption: so there's a couple of different ways
Caption: that we can capture them you've got ad
Caption: hoc testing synthetic monitoring and
Caption: then real user monitoring so I'm going
Caption: to go into each one of those
Caption: ad hoc testing who's used Lighthouse for
Caption: Google Chrome before
Caption: nice this this side of the room
Caption: I'll Focus my attention this way then
Caption: so Lighthouse for Google Chrome is a
Caption: tool built-in built into Google Chrome
Caption: that allows you to test any web page
Caption: probably more likely your own the one
Caption: that you manage and it will give you
Caption: back those those web vital scores you
Caption: can see them it's probably kind of small
Caption: but those numbers in the bottom right
Caption: corner
Caption: it's tracked first contentful paint
Caption: largest kind of content will paint all
Caption: of those other metrics
Caption: um this is really handy it's obviously a
Caption: free tool
Caption: um that you obviously a free tool that
Caption: you can like everyone already has so
Caption: really good to start using that
Caption: um but perhaps a better example is this
Caption: tool here also provided by Google this
Caption: will run
Caption: uh lighthouse on your behalf on a device
Caption: that is not a desktop computer so this
Caption: makes a huge difference because the
Caption: performance profile of the mobile device
Caption: which is what this will run on
Caption: it makes a significant difference to the
Caption: score and it's actually probably more
Caption: realistic and representative of real
Caption: world traffic most of your users are
Caption: going to come from mobile devices the
Caption: other interesting thing about this is
Caption: this will run in a data center in the
Caption: United States so if the majority of your
Caption: customers are there and not here this is
Caption: going to be more representative of that
Caption: too
Caption: so this ad hoc testing this is really
Caption: great it's free anyone can do this and I
Caption: suggest and recommend that people do
Caption: this when you've got if you've got a
Caption: website you should be kind of testing
Caption: the performance and tracking all of this
Caption: stuff there's no setup required everyone
Caption: has Google Chrome even if you don't use
Caption: it you've probably got it uh but these
Caption: are only good for once off manual tests
Caption: it's it's clicking around testing stuff
Caption: we don't have any automation here and
Caption: they're also even though uh the the web
Caption: performance uh the the web.dev measure
Caption: that Tool uh runs in a US data center on
Caption: a mobile device they still don't really
Caption: represent real world traffic
Caption: I'll get back to that in a minute
Caption: one of our other options is synthetic
Caption: monitoring so this is an example of one
Caption: tool um these are really cool people to
Caption: build this they're based in Australia
Caption: caliber and what we're actually looking
Caption: at here is a pull request a comment on a
Caption: pull request so the way this tool is set
Caption: up is every time you create a pull
Caption: request you can set it up to uh
Caption: on a deployed version of of this change
Caption: uh run run a web web vitals test I think
Caption: it runs it just runs Lighthouse but on
Caption: your behalf it will run on multiple
Caption: different devices so we'll run on
Caption: desktops but multiple different Android
Caption: and iOS devices for you as well we'll
Caption: check that and it can you can choose all
Caption: the locations and stuff like that that
Caption: you run on so it's a bit more
Caption: representative of your real world
Caption: traffic again
Caption: so this is this is probably a better
Caption: tool
Caption: um if you want to sort of take the next
Caption: step you've got your continuous
Caption: integration continuous delivery
Caption: automation through those pull request
Caption: checks
Caption: so that allows you if you're doing your
Caption: regular pull request to monitor change
Caption: over time
Caption: unfortunately this Tool's not free you'd
Caption: have to pay a little bit to use it and
Caption: it's still not representative of real
Caption: world traffic so we've got more devices
Caption: now
Caption: um but at the end of the day those
Caption: devices are still running in data
Caption: centers and we're kind of
Caption: assuming that's how it's going to behave
Caption: on the real world but it's still not the
Caption: real world like I think we can do better
Caption: why do I think this is important so
Caption: if we look at browser engines we might
Caption: be mistaken into thinking that there's
Caption: not a whole lot of diversity there so
Caption: you've got a webkit-based devices this
Caption: is uh traffic from a website that I I
Caption: currently kind of maintain so don't know
Caption: this is 100 accurate to like Global
Caption: statistics but if we look at browser
Caption: engines you've got you've got web kits
Caption: so every single iOS device as well as
Caption: some Mac OS desktop devices will be
Caption: running webkit I say every single iOS
Caption: device if you've got Google Chrome on
Caption: your iPhone it's actually webkit it's
Caption: not Google Chrome and then the rest of
Caption: it is Blink so same same browser engine
Caption: as Google Chrome if you're running
Caption: Microsoft Edge you've got that so not a
Caption: whole lot of diversity there
Caption: same with form factor we're down to sort
Caption: of a two-speed World you've got desktop
Caption: devices and mobile devices you've got a
Caption: small sliver there for TVs or something
Caption: tablets right
Caption: but I think this is probably a naive way
Caption: to look at it so you might look at these
Caption: and go I really only need to test on an
Caption: iPhone and maybe one Android device and
Caption: a Windows desktop maybe that should be
Caption: enough I don't think that's good enough
Caption: let's have a look at this is a a graph
Caption: showing the the single core scores of
Caption: devices a wide range of devices mobile
Caption: devices
Caption: um it goes up to 2020 so I think there's
Caption: been some shifts as well but the really
Caption: interesting thing this is telling us is
Caption: there's a huge like massive difference
Caption: in performance between top-end devices
Caption: and low end devices and the problem here
Caption: is the majority of your users aren't
Caption: running those top end devices this is
Caption: like if you're um who here has an iPhone
Caption: and is running tests on it regularly
Caption: caught one person
Caption: um
Caption: this one person I can tell you that baby
Caption: what you're doing is not representative
Caption: of what the majority of your users are
Caption: experiencing so
Caption: to put it another way and this is
Caption: obviously with old data we've got a new
Caption: iPhone that's just come out so this is
Caption: going to change again the difference in
Caption: performance between those two devices is
Caption: so significant that uh like this we've
Caption: got a coin we've got a term that's been
Caption: coined for this it's called the
Caption: performance inequality Gap
Caption: um
Caption: yeah that that's a that's a big
Caption: difference there
Caption: um that was actually coined by by this
Caption: guy he's uh he does some really
Caption: interesting talks on that I've got some
Caption: links at the end to the talks that this
Caption: guy's done before
Caption: um
Caption: he he has a really interesting part on
Caption: his talk where uh he's running these
Caption: performance but uh performance
Caption: benchmarks on these devices
Caption: um and just to sort of add to this as
Caption: well um he's got a Nexus 5x he's tested
Caption: it once and then he puts it on top of a
Caption: block of ice
Caption: um and that that device now performs 15
Caption: faster
Caption: so that's really interesting this now
Caption: means that environment the environment
Caption: in which you run your your website and
Caption: and these benchmarks are working in also
Caption: changes performance so that that score
Caption: that you had before that could be 15
Caption: higher or 15 percent lower
Caption: um and this isn't this isn't just sort
Caption: of like no one's actually running their
Caption: devices on a block of ice but if you're
Caption: outside on a 40 degree day in Perth you
Caption: could actually have users that are
Caption: experiencing your your site with 15 less
Caption: performance
Caption: um so this is this is a real thing that
Caption: um does come up when we're talking about
Caption: uh real world sort of metrics and real
Caption: world tracking
Caption: another thing that's really important is
Caption: I think a lot of us uh work under the
Caption: assumption that um networks are widely
Caption: widely a lot faster and a lot more
Caption: capable than they've ever been um 4G
Caption: itself is very widely available that's
Caption: great that's a bit of a miracle actually
Caption: because it's pulling us forward we have
Caption: a significant
Caption: um uh reduction in in the use of like
Caption: our sort of four second budget four
Caption: seconds is for LCP
Caption: um we've got we've made huge strides and
Caption: and all sites are generally a lot better
Caption: performing for this but that only works
Caption: under the assumption that 4G networks
Caption: are evenly distributed which they're not
Caption: if we look at the sort of variance
Caption: within wa in 4G network speeds at the
Caption: low end you've got about 18 megabytes
Caption: per second and at the high end you're
Caption: talking almost 10 times higher than that
Caption: same goes for latency
Caption: latency can differ very significantly
Caption: particularly on 4G networks 4G by the
Caption: way networks the majority of devices are
Caption: browsing on as well so
Caption: um that that is where you're going to
Caption: see the majority of your devices and the
Caption: majority of of your users with their
Caption: devices are going to be experiencing
Caption: this sort of variance in performance
Caption: so hopefully that tells you that we
Caption: probably need to actually start
Caption: monitoring on real devices so that we
Caption: can account for environmental factors
Caption: different 4G networks and different
Caption: temperatures as it turns out as well as
Caption: different CPU performance on devices
Caption: so what is real user monitoring
Caption: real user monitoring is capturing
Caption: performance metrics directly from
Caption: devices so that we can observe
Caption: differences in functionality reliability
Caption: and responsiveness
Caption: so an example of how to do
Caption: real user monitoring might be the Chrome
Caption: user experience reform so I think we all
Caption: know that Chrome while you're browsing
Caption: the internet is doing all sorts of
Caption: tracking um some of it's good some of
Caption: it's not so good this is maybe one of
Caption: the
Caption: the gooder ones I'd say
Caption: um
Caption: every single website you visit Google is
Caption: sending uh it's it's anonymizing and
Caption: then sending um
Caption: web vitals metrics to itself it collates
Caption: all of those metrics and makes this data
Caption: set completely free and available to you
Caption: so you can pull down this data set now
Caption: for a site that you manage and you can
Caption: see how it's performing on real world
Caption: devices across the internet
Caption: the Chrome user experience report is
Caption: great because it's free you can see I
Caption: can go and see the Chrome user
Caption: experience report for google.com or
Caption: facebook.com it's widely available
Caption: it does do real user monitoring so cool
Caption: ticks that box
Caption: the one downside is that it doesn't give
Caption: you these metrics in real time so you
Caption: can pull this report once a month
Caption: um that's that's a bit unfortunate
Caption: because if we wanted to if we made a
Caption: change and we were worried about the
Caption: performance that feedback loop is too
Caption: long
Caption: uh what happens there is uh you might
Caption: make a sort of a performance regression
Caption: you incur the cost of that performance
Caption: regression for an entire month before
Caption: knowing that you've done that and then
Caption: then you have to go and try and figure
Caption: out what caused that a month later so
Caption: that's not ideal the other thing is this
Caption: only profiles Google Chrome devices so
Caption: you don't get realistic real user
Caption: monitoring for iOS devices based on
Caption: webkit and actually not even all Chrome
Caption: devices just Google Chrome so not like
Caption: blink Microsoft Edge or anything like
Caption: that they're not sending data to Google
Caption: for you
Caption: um so it's not representing everyone
Caption: here's another tool um this kind of
Caption: fixes the uh with the Google Chrome user
Caption: experience report
Caption: um there's a couple of Hoops you have to
Caption: jump through you have to get a Google
Caption: account and then use this data Studio
Caption: thing
Caption: um set it up this kind of just makes
Caption: this a whole lot easier you don't have
Caption: to create an account or anything like
Caption: that you can just plug in a site right
Caption: now anyone here could just do this in
Caption: about two seconds it's made by the
Caption: caliber people too
Caption: and
Caption: I've been told to put the sponsor slide
Caption: either at the beginning or the end so
Caption: the DDD people are probably panicking
Caption: now because I'm about halfway through
Caption: and I've got the slide here like an easy
Caption: finish now
Caption: um I've decided to do something probably
Caption: that might get me a little bit in
Caption: trouble but I'm going to do a sponsor
Caption: leaderboard so I'm going to go through
Caption: all of the sponsors to tell you how fast
Caption: your sites are going to perform
Caption: yeah yeah all right so um just some
Caption: ground rules when we start um this is
Caption: how I'm going to run the tour I'm going
Caption: to run it across the whole domain you
Caption: tend to get better results um it's more
Caption: representative of everything that's
Caption: going on
Caption: um as well as uh there are some sites
Caption: that aren't going to have enough traffic
Caption: so you need I think at least a thousand
Caption: visits on Google Chrome per month um so
Caption: some of them are going to get missed out
Caption: there and the other thing is I'm going
Caption: to order this dashboard in descending
Caption: order from uh at the LCP metric because
Caption: I think that one's most important we
Caption: touched on that before the case study
Caption: for Vodafone that tends to be the one
Caption: that's tied to commercial benefit so
Caption: we're going to go that one
Caption: so a couple of people got off the hook
Caption: didn't get enough traffic so
Caption: good for them
Caption: maybe next year
Caption: and this one's a little bit embarrassing
Caption: so I I work for one of these companies
Caption: it's the one on number 20 there so what
Caption: happened there um I can I can explain
Caption: that and I think I will
Caption: um that website there is more more so a
Caption: recruitment tool than it is the website
Caption: that we derived commercial benefit from
Caption: so that's why that's like that also I
Caption: have nothing to do with that one so
Caption: that's probably why it's like that
Caption: um some other interesting scores here we
Caption: have the lower score obviously for FCP
Caption: and LCP on this on this dashboard really
Caption: interesting though that for insight not
Caption: sure what happened
Caption: um
Caption: the FCP is larger than the LCP so a bit
Caption: confusing I don't think that's actually
Caption: possible maybe that's a dud result scrub
Caption: that off now we're last great there's
Caption: also a zero score for cumulative layout
Caption: shift here so good good on family zone
Caption: for doing that
Caption: let's move up the board here
Caption: some more interesting results uh what
Caption: have we got
Caption: um Planet testing has a interesting
Caption: score for cumulative layout shift of one
Caption: I'm not sure what to make of that that's
Caption: a bit odd to me maybe that's just a bad
Caption: result as well
Caption: um we've got Bunnings along the middle
Caption: there um I should say that uh when I'm
Caption: identifying this stuff obviously this is
Caption: this could be taken or construed as a
Caption: bit of a roast
Caption: um but I also say this is an opportunity
Caption: for improvement until you see something
Caption: like this
Caption: um anyone work for Bunnings
Caption: cool add the back this is a really uh
Caption: there's probably something really simple
Caption: that's that's causing something like
Caption: this especially if it's right across the
Caption: board so there might be opportunity for
Caption: improvement uh here have a quick look at
Caption: it uh it might sort of highlight
Caption: something that you hadn't seen before
Caption: uh We've also got the best score for
Caption: first input Delay from Telstra purple
Caption: here so good for them and I I've got an
Caption: interesting result here as well so
Caption: Bankwest best score for time to First
Caption: buy awesome
Caption: better than AWS so global
Caption: globally redundant uh massive Network
Caption: probably the largest single Network in
Caption: in history ever made and Bankwest dingy
Caption: little Bank from Perth better time to
Caption: First buy it so whatever whatever the
Caption: Bankwest people are doing is probably
Caption: pretty good
Caption: yeah yeah so actually that is a good
Caption: point um Data Center and customers
Caption: majority in Perth so
Caption: um that's probably where that's coming
Caption: from obviously AWS much more distributed
Caption: so
Caption: now and here's the final result so
Caption: who saw that one coming uh TD Perth
Caption: number two there's obviously some really
Caption: smart people putting that one together
Caption: the only green across the board score
Caption: was Versant so good job to them and then
Caption: number one score is GitHub
Caption: um anyone have any theories about like
Caption: github's number one aside from massive
Caption: investment in web performance
Caption: race
Caption: yep
Caption: so for anyone who didn't hear yeah
Caption: Reese's mum doesn't use GitHub as it
Caption: turns out I kind of I kind of assumed
Caption: she did but
Caption: um
Caption: also yeah uh desktop devices majority of
Caption: people with like high-powered devices uh
Caption: largely text based pretty much all
Caption: textbooks as well that tends to help so
Caption: largest contentful pain if you've got
Caption: images on the page you'll be impacted by
Caption: that so some some of these scores as
Caption: well should be mentioned that um take
Caption: them with a bit of a grain of salt it's
Caption: like it's not that GitHub is doing
Caption: something particularly special sometimes
Caption: it's actually more more the user base
Caption: themselves
Caption: um but again yeah plenty of opportunity
Caption: for improvement here as well
Caption: particularly if you've got some of the
Caption: results on this sort of part of the
Caption: board as well there might be something
Caption: really simple
Caption: I'm not going to talk about that in this
Caption: talk though that that's probably the
Caption: next one see you next year
Caption: all right so we figured out how to
Caption: capture metrics from end user devices
Caption: there's a number of really easy ways to
Caption: do it
Caption: but we're still missing continuous
Caption: observability so we've got our Chrome
Caption: user experience report we can get these
Caption: we can get this data but we can get it
Caption: once a month so that's not really good
Caption: enough we need to be able to see this
Caption: data at real time
Caption: uh here's a bit of a our progress as we
Caption: go here so you can see
Caption: um we we're improving along the way
Caption: there but we don't currently have that
Caption: solution that gives us all three we
Caption: haven't quite worked that out yet
Caption: so if we if we can't find an off shelf
Caption: that's off the shelf tool
Caption: um why don't we just ask ourselves is it
Caption: really that hard to build yourself an
Caption: analytic service can we build it
Caption: ourselves we might as well have a try
Caption: we've been through all the tools nothing
Caption: seems to be quite hitting the mark on
Caption: all three
Caption: uh actually does that it's really easy
Caption: so
Caption: um you can grab this Library this is the
Caption: web vitals Library it's the same library
Caption: that I guess they built into Google
Caption: Chrome it can give you the same scores
Caption: but you can run JavaScript you can pull
Caption: that down and um it looks a bit a little
Caption: bit like this you can just import a
Caption: bunch of functions you can add callbacks
Caption: to them that's send to analytics
Caption: function I'll get to that in a sec but
Caption: um we can also while we're here if we're
Caption: going to send something to our little
Caption: analytics service we can capture some
Caption: other stuff as well so JavaScript errors
Caption: content security policy violations we
Caption: can send all of that stuff down there
Caption: that Center analytics function looks
Caption: like this it maybe looks a little I've
Caption: got I've got prettier run over this so
Caption: maybe looks a little bit hard to read
Caption: um it just sends a sends a request down
Caption: to a server so we can start reporting
Caption: these metrics that navigator.send Beacon
Caption: way is it better to better way to send
Caption: metrics like this because it can finish
Caption: the request after your or somewhat after
Caption: your page unloads and goes to the next
Caption: page so if your user clicks on on
Caption: something and you really want to quickly
Caption: report a metric there or an error or
Caption: something like that that's more likely
Caption: to capture it but let's fall back to
Caption: fetch just in case
Caption: and of doing a bit of like I'm doing a
Caption: bit of code golf here so I've tried to
Caption: compress it all into one page but this
Caption: is the entire server this is the whole
Caption: thing
Caption: um so really 24 lines of code is all it
Caption: took we can see here that we're
Caption: importing this prom client Library which
Caption: is the Prometheus Library we'll get to
Caption: that in a minute we can set up our
Caption: metrics like this we're using summary
Caption: metrics so that allows us to observe uh
Caption: time distributions
Caption: and then that's the service just an
Caption: Express web server depending on which
Caption: metric we get back we'll just observe
Caption: each one of those
Caption: so then moving on from there we've got
Caption: our analytics server in the middle and
Caption: then because it's just a really simple
Caption: web server we don't have
Caption: um it's not sort of paired with the
Caption: database there's no persistence or
Caption: anything like that we can keep our
Caption: metrics in memory um the way of doing
Caption: this with Prometheus is it's pull based
Caption: so that's polling on a continuous basis
Caption: our analytics service for the latest
Caption: version of the metrics keeping track of
Caption: that and then we've got grafana slapped
Caption: on top of that because grafana has
Caption: really nice pretty graphs which we'll
Caption: show in a minute
Caption: um but this is dead simple and because
Caption: we've rolled our own analytics service
Caption: I'm not going to tell you all to use
Caption: Prometheus and grafana that's what I use
Caption: but there's nothing stopping you from
Caption: hooking this up to Honeycomb or sending
Caption: this data to New Relic if you wanted to
Caption: there's about a million different
Caption: options for for this and you can send it
Caption: wherever you want and because you've
Caption: written your own code for this that is
Caption: completely up to you
Caption: so here's another example where we might
Caption: want to store a metrics for more
Caption: long-term use
Caption: so you've got Amazon Kinesis firehose
Caption: and S3 and then you can use snowflake to
Caption: run queries over that data
Caption: um dead simple also there's probably 15
Caption: 000 different ways to do this as well
Caption: this is just one example I don't I don't
Caption: we don't do this yet but um yeah I can I
Caption: can see there being value and sort of
Caption: having a long long term trends for those
Caption: metrics rather than something that lives
Caption: in memory so as soon as those uh
Caption: containers are dead then you have to
Caption: start again
Caption: and this is what we end up with so this
Caption: is grafana a quick video from grafana
Caption: we're tracking all of those metrics
Caption: we've got an instant instantaneous score
Caption: so that's really helpful for
Caption: um if we've made a quick change we can
Caption: just look at that and see if that
Caption: number's gone up we can observe Trends
Caption: over time I've got heat Maps there so
Caption: I've got a um a histogram type metric as
Caption: well and that allows us to sort of see
Caption: that distribution over time and we can
Caption: kind of observe any of those Trends
Caption: there so that's really useful I really
Caption: like the one in the the bottom right as
Caption: well those are tied to the actual
Caption: performance scores
Caption: um that I showed you before so green is
Caption: in that good space and then anything
Caption: above that is red
Caption: um we can see how often we're going into
Caption: that red there so that's really really
Caption: helpful too
Caption: if you remember we also sent some other
Caption: stuff to our analytics service so now
Caption: that we've got this this server we can
Caption: kind of start reporting on everything
Caption: that's going on as well so I've got some
Caption: geolocation stuff in there which devices
Caption: uh people are using because we have our
Caption: own analytics server it's really easy to
Caption: just keep adding more to it
Caption: this is where I got the device data from
Caption: as well from the previous slides
Caption: so yeah to recap
Caption: best way to do web performance
Caption: monitoring is to do three things you
Caption: need user-centric performance metrics
Caption: you need to capture those performance
Caption: metrics from Real World devices
Caption: and you need to be able to continuously
Caption: observe those so we need to be able to
Caption: see the advantage of being able to
Caption: continuously observe is we can capture a
Caption: quick regression we can have a PR that
Caption: gets merged everything starts running oh
Caption: look it's something's gone wrong the the
Caption: performance profile has changed in the
Caption: wrong way we can roll that back very
Caption: quickly
Caption: um yeah that's that's all of it that's
Caption: that's the three the three goals we did
Caption: it
Caption: thanks everyone
Caption: that's me if you want to if you want to
Caption: like attack me on Twitter for uh
Caption: roasting the the place where you work so
Caption: uh that's that's how you do that if you
Caption: want to know
Caption: um I've also got all the resources here
Caption: um you can find my slides
Caption: um using using any of those links there
Caption: I'll share them out so all the resources
Caption: everything I talked about is there
Caption: here's how to learn about all of those
Caption: metrics as well more than just the 10
Caption: seconds I gave them on stage here's some
Caption: really useful tools so all the tools I
Caption: covered versus some other stuff as well
Caption: has anyone got any questions
Caption: race
Caption: making me nervous man
Caption: um no I just wanted to get your opinion
Caption: so those
Caption: um Google had those kind of green to Red
Caption: not so good good
Caption: um I was kind of surprised that the
Caption: numbers nowadays are still quite High I
Caption: think you said 1.8 seconds her first
Caption: contentful paint
Caption: like I shut it 1.8 seconds oh my God
Caption: what are we doing like you know what are
Caption: your feelings on that am I being
Caption: ridiculous or is what's good for Macklin
Caption: what do you think is good what are you
Caption: aiming for
Caption: I think you might be surprised um like
Caption: if we go back to I'm not going to go
Caption: back to the leaderboards you guys don't
Caption: need to see that again but if you go
Caption: back to the leaderboards um quite a lot
Caption: of first content for pain I don't think
Caption: anyone got less than a second
Caption: um less than a second uh sounds really
Caption: good that sounds like what you'd want
Caption: but
Caption: um it is actually pretty hard to get to
Caption: that to that score
Caption: um and I think Google has said it in
Caption: such a way that I think it accounts for
Caption: uh accounts for that variability so not
Caption: everyone has a device that's going to
Caption: ensure that we can get it in 1.8 seconds
Caption: the majority of people have devices that
Caption: are significantly slower than the device
Caption: you and I probably use it's accounting
Caption: for that's accounting for people in in
Caption: uh
Caption: jurisdictions like geolocations like
Caption: rural Australia or
Caption: parts of India and stuff like that where
Caption: they are going to not actually be able
Caption: to attain that level of performance as
Caption: well
Caption: um one of the 4G providers was 10 times
Caption: faster than the others do you know who
Caption: that was so I can switch my mobile plan
Caption: so the question was one of the one of
Caption: the 4G providers was really fast it was
Caption: actually based on location so
Caption: um and and it wasn't Perth either so
Caption: that that that that that shot that slide
Caption: was um
Caption: uh across wa
Caption: um you actually tend to find you get
Caption: better performance in some rural but not
Caption: very rural town so I think that might
Caption: have been something like kalbari
Caption: um they've got a tower there it serves
Caption: uh comparatively less people than it
Caption: does in Perth so some Perth suburbs
Caption: mostly sort of sit around the middle
Caption: there and then very rural places will
Caption: have those lower scores
Caption: awesome talk man I love the uh sponsor
Caption: comparison
Caption: um
Caption: we also at my company were using the
Caption: Google library to send the analytics to
Caption: in our case New Relic
Caption: um and New Relic also monitor that
Caption: through their own mechanism and we found
Caption: that the numbers were different
Caption: and I just wondered if you'd come across
Caption: different values for the core web vitals
Caption: with different tooling
Caption: that's really interesting
Caption: um
Caption: yeah I I they vary a lot and like um uh
Caption: if you just run two Google Lighthouse
Caption: scores back to back you're not going to
Caption: get the same results as well
Caption: but yeah even if we're kind of looking
Caption: at exactly the same data I'm not sure
Caption: the difference there the one thing I
Caption: could probably say is maybe that web
Caption: vitals Library it has to run sort of in
Caption: JavaScript space JavaScript runtime
Caption: whereas um the one that's built into
Caption: Google Chrome as much as they try and
Caption: keep that the same maybe they can kind
Caption: of detect different things in in the
Caption: browser and they come up with different
Caption: scores I'd imagine they keep it as close
Caption: as they possibly can
Caption: um but yeah that's some sort of
Caption: variability in there how how much
Caption: different was it out for you
Caption: it was uh mostly around the CLS scores
Caption: so like the New Relic one was very
Caption: positive but the Google one was a bit it
Caption: felt more realistic so we sort of
Caption: trusted the Google JavaScript library
Caption: more than new relics at the time
Caption: yeah that's interesting um
Caption: I I don't know how nearly can put that
Caption: together as well I imagine there's a
Caption: guide for how to put it together maybe
Caption: um I know that that web vitals library
Caption: is largely something that supports
Caption: Chrome more than other browsers maybe
Caption: New Relic went and rewrote it themselves
Caption: and figured out how to get it to work in
Caption: webkit and and Firefox I can't speculate
Caption: on that but there could actually be
Caption: different codes sort of detecting that
Caption: thank you so much Macklin if everyone
Caption: could just give him another round for
Caption: pros for that amazing talk
Caption: [Applause]